--- 
layout: post
title: "Step 1"
date: 2015-09-23
---

One week into both reviewing and also learning some cool new stuff at Khan Academy, Codecademy, and edX. 

These are the main key takeaways:
<ul>
<li>
<strong>Computer programming is different from computer science. </strong> The former is concerned with the language, syntax, how to create webpages, how to make drawings/animations. On the other hand, computer science is the study of algorithms, cryptography, and how we encode and compress information. </li>
<li><strong>Terms to be familiar with</strong> including text/strings, variables, functions, if/else, debugging/GDB, looping, arrays, objects, etc.</li>
<li>I got the <strong>basics of HTML/CSS</strong> (ah..the fondness of the old days using xanga/blogspot)<strong>, Javascript, and terminal command line.</strong> These are normally used in <strong>the design part and front-end web dev.</strong> Libraries associated with JS: jQuery, d3.js, processing.js</li>
<li>On the <strong>back-end,</strong> there are 3 parts: server, application, and database. The popular languages & frameworks are <strong>Cake PHP, Ruby on Rails, and Python on Django.</strong> I also got to practice SQLite with some data from github. SQL is a special purpose programming language designed for managing data in relational database. CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Drop/Delete).</li>
</ul>


As expected, most of the new materials I learnt are like lego pieces I just unboxed. They are scattered all over the place in my mind. I have to admit I get anxious that I’m not learning fast enough to get to where I want as I have planned. Well, I guess the upside of this trajectory is I’m also learning how to be more comfortable facing the unknown. It’s challenging and exciting!
